# Introduction to C Language:
# 1. Difference between low level and high level language:
    (A) Low level language:
        * Machine language: 0's and 1's; It depends CPU's architecture because each CPU architecture has its own set of instructions and ways of interpreting the binary code. It makes the software non-portable between different computer systems unless they share the same or compatible architectures.
        * Assembly language: Instead of using binary digits (0s and 1s), assembly language uses mnemonic codes or short words that are easier for programmers to remember and understand. It is slower than ML because they need to be first converted to ML. They are also dependent on architecture.
    (B) High level language: (C, C++, Java, etc.)
        * They are independent of architecture and use symbols like '+', '-', etc.

# 2. Language translators:
    * Assembler: Assembly language to Machine code
    * Compiler: HLL to object code before the program is executed. It needs more memory than interpreter. (Ex: C, C++, C#, Java)
        Object code: It is generated by the compiler or assembler during the process of translating high-level programming languages (like C or C++) into machine code. Object code is still in binary format, but it includes machine code instructions as well as additional information that facilitates linking and loading processes. (This is the .exe file) Once you have this .exe you dont need source code to run the program. 
    * Interpreter: HLL to object code in parallel during execution (line by line). It is slower than compiler. (Ex: Pyhton, Ruby, JS, etc.)

# 3. Execution process of a C program:
    1. Writing the Source Code
    2. Preprocessing
        - Anything that begins with # is known as a preprocessor directive. It cannot be understood by the compiler.
        - Compiler will search for the filename in the libraries (Ex: Searching the file stdio.h)
    3. Compiling: The compiler (lik GCC or CLANG) performs syntax checking, type checking, and generates the assembly code. 
    4. Assembling: Assembler translates assembly code into machine code and creates the object code file.
    5. Linking: If the program consists of multiple source code files, the linker is used to combine the object code files and resolve references between them. It also links any external libraries or modules needed by your program. The output is a single executable file (.exe).
    6. Loading: When you run the executable file, the operating system's loader allocates memory for the program and loads its object code and data into memory.
    7. Initialization: The program's initialization code is executed. Global and static variables are set up, and resources may be allocated. This prepares the program for execution.
    8. Main Function Execution: Execution starts with the first line of code within the main function.
    9. Memory Management: The program may dynamically allocate and deallocate memory using functions like malloc, free, and realloc.
    10. Input and Output:  Functions like scanf are used for input, and printf is used for output.
    11. Termination: The main function may return, or the program may encounter an exit point. Resources are released, and cleanup operations are performed.
    12. Operating System Cleanup: After the program terminates, the operating system may perform cleanup tasks like memory deallocation and resource release.

# 4. Constants in C:
    (a) Integer: They are whole numbers without a decimal point.
        * Decimal (base 10 i.e., 0-9): Example: 123
        * Octal (base 8 i.e., 0-7): Prefix with 0. Example: 0123
        * Hexadecimal (base 16 i.e., 0-15 where 10 - 15 are from A-F): Prefix with 0x or 0X. Example: 0x1A
    (b) Floating-Point: It has decimal points
        * Example: 3.14, -0.005, etc.
    (c) Character: Any single character enclosed in single quotes ('') including special characters.
        * Example: 'A', '5', '\n' (newline), '\t' (tab)
            Here you can see the number 5. But since it is enclosed single quote it is not a numeric constant but a character constant.
        * Note 1: printf ("%d",'a'); Here %d or %i stands for integer. 'a' stands for 97. So 97 will be printed
                printf ("%c",65); Here %c stands for character. 65 stands for A. So A will be printed
        * Note 2: The difference between a and 'a' is that a is interpreted as a variable name or an identifier which is  used to represent a variable that holds a value. But 'a' is interpreted as a character constant or a character literal which is used to represent a specific character based on its ASCII value (97 in this case).
    (d) String: They are sequences of characters enclosed in double quotes ("").
        * Example: "Hello, World!" 
    (e) Enumeration: They are user-defined symbolic names for integer values. They are defined using the enum keyword.
        * Example: enum Color {
                        RED,
                        GREEN,
                        BLUE
                    };
    (f) Symbolic Constants (Macros): They are defined using the #define preprocessor directive. They are replaced by their corresponding values during preprocessing.
        * Example: #define PI 3.14159. Here PI will be replaced by 3.14159 during the preprocessing phase which occurs before the compilation of the prorgam
    (g) Boolean Constants: C does not have a dedicated boolean data type, but boolean constants can be simulated using integer values. 0 represents false, and non-zero values represent true. 
    (h) Null Pointer Constant: It is represented as NULL. It's used to indicate that a pointer does not point to any valid memory location.
    (i) Octal and Hexadecimal Escape Sequences: They are ways to represent characters using their ASCII values in either octal (base 8) or hexadecimal (base 16) notation. 
Declaration of constant:
    * const int a = 10;
    *  #define A 10
        Always use capital letters for a variable when you are defining (not a rule but a convention to distinguish them from regular variables and improve code readability)

 
# 5. Rules for using Variables:
    * No space between the letters if it has more than one letter
    * No special chacarcters ($, &, etc.)
        Underscore is not a special character
    * Can contain numbers but cannot start with a number
    * Cannot contain comma
    * Keywords cannot be used as a variable name

# 6. Identifiers and Keywords:
    * There are 32 keywords in C. All are in lowercase.
    * Identifiers refer to names that are used to identify various programming elements such as variables, functions, types, labels, and other user-defined entities. Max characters can be 31 and both LC/UC can be used.

# 7. Data types
# int: (%i or %d) and (%u for unsigned int)
    Memory: 4 bytes (32 bits)
    printf("%i",sizeof(int)); => This will give you the actual size. 4 bytes is not standard. It varies across architecture.
    Range: -2^31 to 2^31 - 1 (minus 1 is to accomodate 0) => 2 billion
    unsigned int: It is qualifier which doubles the capacity but allows only +ve values
    unsigned int range: 0 to 2^32 - 1 (It will no longer allow you take negative int) => 4 billion 
    There are other qualifiers like long, short and const.
# long int: (%li or %ld)
    Memory: 8 bytes (64 bits)
    Same as int.
# short int: (%hi or %hd)
    Memory: 2 bytes (16 bits)
    Same as int.
Remember that all sizes and ranges vary depending on the architecture of the computer. 
Only dfference between %i and %d is that, %i can interpret input in various bases like hexadecimal and octal which %d lacks. 
By the way they are called as format specifiers.
# char: (%c)
    Memory: 1 byte (8 bits)
    Range: -2^7 (-128) to 2^7 - 1 (127)
    char data type is technically capable of representing numeric values as well.
    Hence we have negative values and it also has unsigned char just like int. (0 to 255)
# float: (%f) (%.nf will display n digits after decimal point)
    They are known as real numbers
    Memory: 4 bytes (32 bits)
    Used to display decimal numbers 
# double: (%lf)
    Memory: 8 bytes (64 bits)
    Same as float. 
# long double: (%Lf)
    Memory: 10/12 bytes (80/96 bits)
    Same as float. 
If you want accuracy upto 7-9 digits, youc an use float; upto 15-17 digits, you can use double and for >18/19 you can use long double.
# boolean:
    Memory: 1 byte (8 bits)
    Used for true/false type of condition
# string:
    There is nothing called string datat type in C. We have char * that performs the function of the string
    Memory: 4 byte (32 bit system) and 8 byte (64 bit system)
    It is not just char *. Any data type that is used as a pointer will have the same memory


# int main (void):
    It is not a data type just called a type
    The main function with a return type of int indicates that it returns an integer value to the operating system when the program finishes. 
    Void inside main function means that it doesn't receive any information or data from the outside. It's like an empty container before the program is executed.
    The return value represents the exit status of the program, with 0 typically indicating successful execution and non-zero values indicating various error conditions or abnormal termination.

# CS50 specific data types
# bool:
    It stores a boolean value (t/f) in a variable
    Note: In C, every non-zero value is equivalent to true and  zero is equivalent to false
# string:
    They include words, sentences and paragraphs

# 8. Variables: 
    # Creating a variable:
        int number;
        float sqrt2, srtt3, pi;
        Best pratice: Declare a variable when you need it
    # Using a variable:
        int number; (This is known as declaration)
        number = 17; (This is known as assignment)
        int number = 17; (This is known as initialisation)
    # Scope of a variable:
        Local: Can be accessed only by the functions within which they were created.
        Global: Van be accessed by any function in the program by declaring them outside of every function.

    
# 9. Operators
Most of them are known to you. Hence focussing Boolean expressions which has two types of operators.
# Logical operators:
When first conidtion is false, logical AND will not even check the second.
    # Logical AND (&&):
        x       y      x && y
       true    true     true
       true    false    false
       false   true     false
       false   false    false
        int x = 10;
        int y = 5;
        int result = (x > 5) && (y < 8);  // Result is 1 (true)

When first conidtion is true, logical OR will not even check the second.
    # Logical OR (||)
        x       y      x && y
       true    true     true
       true    false    true
       false   true     true
       false   false    false
        int a = 3;
        int b = 9;
        int result = (a > 5) || (b < 8);  // Result is 1 (true)

    $ Logical NOT (!)
        x       !x
       true    false
       false   true
        int value = 0;       // 0 is considered false
        int result = !value; // Result is 1 (true)

# Bitwise operators:
    # Bitwise AND (&):
        unsigned int a = 5;  // 0101 in binary
        unsigned int b = 3;  // 0011 in binary
        unsigned int result = a & b;  // 0001 (1 in decimal)

    # Bitwise OR (|):
        unsigned int a = 5;  // 0101 in binary
        unsigned int b = 3;  // 0011 in binary
        unsigned int result = a | b;  // 0111 (7 in decimal)

    # Bitwise XOR (^): If both bits are same, output is 0 and if both are different output is 1
        unsigned int a = 5;  // 0101 in binary
        unsigned int b = 3;  // 0011 in binary
        unsigned int result = a ^ b;  // 0110 (6 in decimal)

    # Bitwise NOT (~):
        unsigned int a = 5;        // 0101 in binary
        unsigned int result = ~a;  // 1010 (10 in decimal)

    # Left-shift (<<):
        Lets say a = 10 (00001010)
                 c = a << 2 (left most 2 bits will discarded and every bits thereof will be shifted and 0's will be added at the end)
                 i.e., now a will become 40 (00101000)
    # Right-shift (>>): Same as above

# Difference between Logical and Bitwise operators:
Aspect	            Bitwise Operators	                                        Logical Operators
Operand Type	    Operate on integers	                                        Operate on truth values
Operation	        Perform bitwise operations on individual bits of operands	Combine and evaluate expressions based on their truth values
Representation	    Work on binary representation of integers	                Work on truth values (0 or non-zero)
Usage	            Often used in low-level programming, bit manipulation	    Used for control flow and decision making
Result	            Result is based on binary operations (0s and 1s)	        Result is either 0 (false) or 1 (true)
Logical Context	    Not suitable for boolean conditions directly	            Specifically designed for boolean conditions

# Relational operators: >, <, >=, <=, == and !=
    You know the basics but just note down the following
    Relational operators return 1 for true and 0 for false.
        Example: 8 >= 8 would evaluate to 1 (true), as 8 is equal to or greater than 8.
                 8 >= 8 > 9 would evaluate to 0 (false), as 8 is equal 8 which results in 1 but 1 is not greater than 9.
    C uses 2 operators to check for for equality (==) or inequality (!=)
        Equality (x==y)
        Inequality (x!=y)
    Just remember this. Single equal to is an assignmnet operator while double equal to is an equality operator

Note 1: Difference between X++ and ++X
    Say x = 10 and y = 11
    when x = y++, value of x will be 11 and y will then become 12. That is assignment operator (=) sees the y to the right of it and hence will asssign the current value of y (11 in this case) to x and then will increment the value of y to 12.
    when x = ++y, now the incremented value of y will be assigned to x.
        Increment/Decrement operator has higher precedence than assignment operator
Note 2: Modulo operator
    They can be used only with int datatype and not with float or other numeric datatypes
    Also, they will always take the sign of first operand. That is when x = -y % z, x will assign the sign if y
Note 3: BODMAS
    C follows BODMAS rule but when they have same level of precedence, they are evaluated in the order they appear from the left side to the right side of the expression.
    Example: a = b - c + d * e => Here, d * e will executed, then b - c will be executed and the result first and secodn execution will be added and the assigned to a. 
Note 4: Order of precedence for operators => All Mother Brightly Radiate Emotions Across A Diverse Chidren Nourishing (AMBREAADCN)
    * All: Assignment
    * Mother: Multiplication, Modulus
    * Brightly: Bitwise NOT, Bitwise AND, Bitwise OR, Bitwise XOR
    * Radiate: Relational
    * Emotions: Exponentiation, not present in C, but included for general understanding
    * Across: Addition
    * Diverse: Decrement
    * Chidren: Comma
    * Nourishing: Logical NOT, Logical AND, Logical OR

# Comma (,) operator:
When you are declaring a variable, comma will act as a separator (int a,b;). But while assigning a value, comma will act as an operator (a = 4,5)
When a = 4 , 5 and assignment operator has the higher precedence a's value will become 4. They value 5 will not even be touched. (Compiler might just throw a warning that the value 5 has not been used at all)
But when you use a = (4 , 5) where the paranthesis has the higher precdence, it will enter the brackets first. Now the nature of comma operator is that it will evaluate the first and then reject it and then move on to the next value until there exists no comma operator. So here 4 will be evaluated and then ignored and will move to 5 which will be assigned to a.
You cant initialise like this int a = 4 , 5 because what this means is int a = 4, int 5 (This is invalid synatx in C) But if you declare the same with paranthesis comma will act as an operator not as a separator. int a = (5 , 4);
Consider this example: int a = 8, b;
                        b = (a++, ++a); Here a will be incremented to 9 and then rejected. Then a is incremneted to 10 and then assigned to b
                        b = a++, ++a; When you execute the same statemnet without brackets, value of a (8) will be assigned to b and the a will be incremented to 9. Then a will again be incremnted to 10 but this time it cannot be assigned to b as a value has already been assigned at the beginning.

# Ternary operator (?:):
It can be used as an alternate for if else statements if you have few lines of code. Below is the example.
int x = (boolean expression) ? 5 : 6
Its equivalent if-else is as below
int x;
if (boolean expression)
{
    x = 5;
}
else
{
    x = 6;
}

# C Operator Precedence and Associativity:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operator    Description	                                        Associativity       Mnemonic
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
()          Parentheses (grouping)                                  L to R          Proudly
[]          Brackets (array subscript)
.           Member selection via object name                                        Marching in 
->          Member selection via pointer
++ --       postincrement/postdecrement                                             Delhi,
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
++  --      preincrement/predecrement                               R to L
+  -        Unary plus/minus                                                        Under
!  ~        Unary logical negation/bitwise complement
(type)      Unary cast (change type)
*           Dereference/Pointers                                                    Peacock
&           Address
sizeof      Determine size in bytes                                                 Skies,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+  /  %	    Arithmetic                  	                        L to R          And
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<<  >>	    Bitwise shift left, Bitwise shift right                 L to R          Beautiful Scenaries
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<  <=       Relational less than/less than or equal to              L to R          Rangoli 
>  >=       Relational greater than/greater than or equal to
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
==  !=	    Relational is equal to/is not equal to                  L to R
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&	        Bitwise AND                                             L to R          Brings
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
^	        Bitwise exclusive OR                                    L to R
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|	        Bitwise inclusive OR                                    L to R
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
&&	        Logical AND                                             L to R          Love
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
||	        Logical OR	                                            L to R
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
?:	        Ternary conditional                                     R to L
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=           Assignment                                              R to L          And
+=  -=      Addition/subtraction assignment
*=  /=      Multiplication/division assignment
%=  &=      Modulus/bitwise AND assignment
^=  |=      Bitwise exclusive/inclusive OR assignment
<<=  >>=    Bitwise shift left/right assignment
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
,           Comma (separate expressions)                            L to R          Color
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# 10. Formatted Input and Output Statements:
Formatted input and output involve the use of format specifiers to control the way data is presented or read from the console or files. These format specifiers are placeholders that determine how variables of different types are printed or read. 
Formatted I/O produces output that is often designed to be easily readable by humans. 
    Formatted Input Functions:
        * scanf(): Reads formatted input from the standard input (keyboard) based on format specifiers.
        * fscanf(): Reads formatted input from a specified file stream.
        * sscanf(): Reads formatted input from a string.
    Formatted Output Functions:
        * printf(): Outputs formatted data to the standard output (console) based on format specifiers.
        * fprintf(): Outputs formatted data to a specified file stream.
        * sprintf(): Writes formatted data to a string.
        * snprintf(): Writes formatted data to a string with a specified maximum length.
Explanations with examples:
    x = scanf ("%d%d", &a,&b); will lead x getting a value of 2. The return value of scanf (the number of successful conversions) is stored in the variable x. But, the printf function does not return a value representing the number of successful conversions.
    In the case of printf, the return value indicates the number of characters successfully written to the output stream. If there's an error during writing, printf returns a negative value. However, the primary purpose of printf is to display formatted text, and the return value is generally used for error checking rather than counting conversions.
    You can specify the size of the integer in the printf (just like you do it in the float)
        say a = 1234;
        printf ("%6d",a);
        This will print _ _ 1 2 3 4 (dash represents space) (It is right justified)
        If you use printf ("%-6d",a); 1 2 3 4 _ _ (It is left justified)
        If you want zero to fill the empty space, you can use printf ("%06d",a); or printf ("%-06d",a);
        For a float, consider this example. printf ("%10.2d",a); Here 10 represents the number of digits before decimal point and .2 represents the number of digits after decimal point. 
            Say a = 1234.5678, the output will be _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 2 3 4 . 5 6 when you use printf ("%10.2d",a);

# 11. Unformatted Input and Output Statements:
Unformatted input and output involve reading or writing raw data without applying any special formatting rules. This data is usually treated as a sequence of characters or bytes.
Unformatted I/O doesn't prioritize human readability; it's more suitable for efficiently transferring structured data between programs or storing binary data.
    Unformatted Input Functions:
        * getchar(): Reads a single character from standard input (keyboard). It will display te character on the screen and you may enter many characters. But once you hit enter only the first character will accepted.
        * getch(): Reads a single character from the console without waiting for Enter and the entered character will not be displayed (technical name is 'echoed') on the screen and the control will move to the next line of the code.
        * getche(): Same as above but the character will be displayed on the screen. e means echo
        * fgetc(): Reads a single character from a specified file stream.
        * gets() (Deprecated and unsafe): Reads a line of text from standard input. They are used Turbo in c. 
        * fgets(): Reads a line of text from a specified file stream.
    Unformatted Output Functions:
        * putchar(): Writes a single character to standard output (console). => putchar ('c') where c is the single character
        * fputc(): Writes a single character to a specified file stream.
        * puts(): Writes a string followed by a newline to standard output. => puts("Hello, World!");
        * fputs(): Writes a string to a specified file stream.
Note: Generally when prefixed with f means they are used for reading from and writing in files. But it can also be used with console. 

# 12. Conditional Statements
Again you know the basics like if , if-else.
# switch ():
To make decisions based on the value of an expression or variable. Below is the example:
int x = get_int ();
switch (x) where x can be an integer or a single character (no floats, strings, etc.) x represents the 1,2,3,4,5, etc. While using character literals, enclose them in single quotes
{
    case 1: 
        printf("One, ");
        break
     case 2: 
        printf("Two, ");
        break
    case 3: 
        printf("Three, ");
        break
    case 4: 
        printf("Four, ");
        break
    case 5: 
        printf("Five, ");
        break
    default:
        printf("No Matches");
}
Here when you enter a value as 4, only the case 4 will be executed. Here break is essential because, if not specified everything whatever after the case 4 will also be executed.
Breaks are used to exit the loop/switch. It cannot be used elsewhere (like in the normal flow of a program)
Opposite of break is 'continue'. When the porgram ebcounters continue statement, it will again give the control back the beginning of the loop. The lines after the continue will not be executed. 
    for (int i = 0; i <= 5; i++)
    {
        printf ("Enter a number: ");
        scanf ("%d", &a);
        if (a < 0)
        {
        continue;
        <!-- When you enter a negative number, 'if' condition will be satisfied and the continue statement will be exeuted. The control will move back to the next iteration of the loop -->
        }
        sum = sum + a;
    }


# 13. Loops
    # While: Use this when you want the loop for unkown number of times
        Different ways of writing them.
            while (i > 0)
            while (0) => This means that condition is always false and the loop will never be executed
            while (non-zero number) => This means that condition is always true and the loop will always be executed
            int i = 0; while (i++) => Since this is a post increment, Under while loop, i will be initially 0 and hence the condition will be false
            If the condition was while (++i), then the condition would be true.
            char ch = 'a'; while (ch) => Here a is 97, a non-zero number and hence the condition will be true
            while (ch < 127 && i > 0)
    # do-while: Same as while but if you want the loop to executed atleast once wihtout cehcking the condition
    # for: Use this when you want the loop to repeat for discrete number of times
        When you use for loop without condition or increment/decrement, it will be an infinite loop. 
        Different ways of writing them.
            for (int i = 0; i <= n; i++)
            for (int i = 0; ; i++)
            for (int i = 0; i <= n; )
            for (int i = 0, j = 5; i <= n && j <= 10; i++) 
            for (int i = 0, j = 5; i <= n, j <= 10; i++) When you are using comma between 2 conditions, it will treat the last condition as the only condition and will ignore the rest (that is j <= 10 will be treated as the condition not i <= n)
            for (int i = 0, j = 5; i <= n && j <= 10; i++, j++)
            for (int i = 0; i <= n; i++); This semicolon will mean that the loop will become a single line loop. Any line after this loop will not be a part of this loop. The above line will be executed until the condition becomes false.
    # But just remember. Anything can be used for anything. It is just the convention
    # fow and while are entry checked and do-while is exit checked

# 14. Arrays:
They are a way of storing data back-to-back in memory such that the datas are easily accessible.
They are a block of contiguous space of memeory which has been partitioned into small, identically sized blocks of space called elements each of which can store data of same type and can be directly accessed by an index.
Syntax: data-type name [size]
    Syntax example: "int hours [5] = {7, 8, 6, 2, 3};" or "int hours [] = {7, 8, 6, 2, 3};" since there are 5 values in the brackets we need not mention the size.
    In this example, you have to understand that hours will hold the address of the first element, that is hours [0]. (Like a pointer variable)


# 15. Pointers:
They are also variable that has a name, a value and an address. But in value, it stores the address of another variable. 
When you declare a pointer variable as int, float or char, it is not the data type of the pointer variable itself. Rather, it is the data type of variable whose address the pointer variable is storing. 
Syntax: int *var_name || int a, *var_name = &a
* is called as dereferencing operator and they are executed from R to L with respect to precedence and associativity.
when int p = &a, &b => address of a will assigned to p. But when int p = (&a, &b), address of b will assigned to p based on precedence rule.
When int a = 10; int *p = &a; printf ("Value of a = %d", *p) => This will print the value that the pointer variable p is pointing to (a in this case). When you just typed it as p, it would have printed the address of a which is stored in p. 
Remember this: *p should be read as "value of the (address which is stored in p)" Read it exactly like this. 'Value of the' separately and the rest separately.
    # Pointer assignment:
        int a = 10, b = 11, *p, *q;
        p = &a;
        q = p; => This is simple. p has the address of 'a' stored. Now that address will also be stored by q. That both p and q will point to the value at 'a'.
        But when *q = *p => This might give you errors. Why? *p refers to the value that the p is pointing to which is 10 in this case. But what what is q pointing to? So far nothing, We havent assigned anything to the pointer variable q. That is q's value is nothing (technically a garbage value). So trying to access that mmight result in an error. Point to remember is when you are using q with a dereferencing operator, after the initial assignment it should have some value (To be precise some address).  
        if q = &b and then when you use *q = *p => p is pointing to 10 which will over-ride the value 11 that the q is pointing to. So now b also becomes 10.
    # Pointer to pointer (Double pointer):
        We already know that pointers stores an address as a value but on the other hand themselves have an address in a memory.
        This address can be stored by another pointer variable making it double pointers
        Syntax: int **q
        Example: int a = 10; int *p = &a; int **q = &p;
            In the last line if you write int **q = &a; => Not permissible as 'a' is not a pointer variable
        Printing the value of a using a, p and q
            printf ("%d %d %d", a, *p, **q); 
        When you assign **q = 25 => value of 'a' will be changed to 25 from 10.
            But when you assign *q = 25 => 'q' is a double pointer which already has the address of a pointer variable 'p' stored as its value. That is q is pointing to p whose value is address of a. Since p can store only address, assigning a value 25 will lead an error 
        It is not just double pointer. It can have any number of levels like triple, quad, etc.
            Just remember this: A triple pointer can store only the address of double pointer and a quad pointer can store only the address of triple pointer, etc.
    # Pointer arithmetic:
        You cant two pointer variables. But you can add an integer to a single pointer. 
        lets say p stores the address of 'a' which is 1000 (Here 1000 denotes the first bit's address). When you add 2 to 'p', it actually means p's value (i.e., 1000) + 2 x size of the data type. Since we we are dealing with int, it will 2 x 4 = 8. So, 1000+8 will be 1008. 
        But who knows what is at 1008? So arithmetic operations on pointer will not make any sense when your operating with single variable. But when using an array it will make a lot of sense. Consider this. int a[4] = {0, -1, 2, 5}; int *p = &a[0] or int *p = a (this is also right as 'a' will have base address);
            Here when you printf ("%d", *p); 0 will be printed. 
            p = p + 2. Now when you print it, output will be 2
            Important point to note: We have studied that even a (in this exampple) will hold the base address. But a = a + 2 will not be able to move the address just like p did. Because here a's address is constant. You cant change that. 
        Unlike addition of two pointers which is not allowed, subtraction of two pointers are possible.
            This is because when you are subtracting pointers, you can calculate the number of elements between the two pointers. But adding them doesn't necessarily make any sense.  But when you add an integer to the pointer, you can arrive at a different memory location, so that is allowed.
        So, for subtraction, lets say declare a new variable called int d and int *q = a[3]. Now d = p - q means 1012 - 1000 which is 12. Now divide this number size of the data type which is 4 in this case. 12/4 = 3. So we 2 elements between them and second pointer is 3 position offset from the first pointer. 

    # Void pointer:
        Pointer variables have associated data type. But VP doesn't have one.
        Syntax: void *p;
        An int pointer variable means that it stores the address of an integer data type. But a void pointer can actually store any data-type.
        The issue is, you cant dereference the pointer without typecasting it.
            Whenever you are using * after the declaration, it is deferencing. So typecasting means that assigning them a data-type as *(int*)vp
                printf ("%d", *p) => This is wrong
                printf ("%d", *(int*)p) => This is right (typecasting as integer)
        The logical question - what exactly is the point of using these? See, when you are using different data types like int, char, float, etc. you need to have 3 different pointers for each of them. But, using void pointer you can just use one and typecaste it based on the needs.   
        Just giving you a heads up. You will use the in malloc and calloc.

    # Null Pointer:
        When you declare a variable as int *p but doesnt store an address their (unitialised), it is very dangerous. Because, we dont know what it is going to point to which can lead to undefined behaviour. This uninitiaslised pointer is called as 'Wild pointer'
        So to avoid this (especially when we dont know what to assign to them initially), we have to initialise them to NULL, i.e., int *p = NULL; But, a NULL pointer doesn't point to any object.
        They NULL pointer cannot be dereferenced (that is it cannot be used without allocating a memmory) just like an undeclared pointer (say int *p). Then why assign it to NULL? What is the use? Because, now you can check if the pointer is NULL, then printf ("Pointer is not pointing to anything or Memory is not allocated or any error that goes with the program")
            If you dereference it, the program will crash
        Later you can assign different value to p. 
        Best practice => Always initialise a pointer variable to NULL
        If you initiate another pointer int *q = NULL; remember both p and q are same.

    # Dangling Pointer:
        They are not a deliberate feature or concept in programming like void pointers or null pointers. Instead, they are unintended consequences of bad programming practices or errors.
        Dangling pointers commonly occur in situations such as:
            * Deallocation without updating pointers: When memory is deallocated (e.g., using free() in C or delete in C++), but a pointer still references that memory location.
                void main()
                {
                    int *p = (int*)malloc(sizeof(int));
                    *p = 10;
                    printf("%d\n", *p);
                    free (p);
                    <!-- Memory is freed but the pointer is pointing some location which could result in a undefined behavaiour-->
                    printf("%d\n", *p);
                }
            * Returning a pointer to a local variable: If a function returns a pointer to a local variable, the pointer becomes dangling once the function exits because the local variable goes out of scope.
                void main ()
                {
                    int *p = function ()
                    printf ("%d", *p);
                }
                int* function()
                {
                    int a = 10;
                    <!-- Once the a's address is returned, the scope of a ends with in this function. So with respect to main, *p has nowhere to point resulting in it being a dangling pointer -->
                    <!-- But this porgram will actually return an error saying that 'function returns address of local variable'. So C can prevent dangling pointers with repect to 'Returning a pointer to a local variable'. -->
                    return &a;
                }
            * Multithreaded programming: Unlike function Prototypes/declarations that makes the code modular, readable and maintainable, MP's deals with running multiple threads of execution concurrently within a program. It's a technique used to take advantage of multi-core processors and improve performance by breaking down tasks into threads that can run independently. With respect to dangling pointers, in multi-threaded programs, if one thread deallocates memory while another thread still has a pointer to that memory, it can lead to dangling pointers. 
        Solution: After freeing the memory, assign them NULL value


# 16. Functions:
    AKA procedures, methods and sub-routines
    It is simply a box that has 1 or more inputs and generate an output.
    Uses:
         1. Functions allow you to break down your code into smaller, manageable units. Each function can have a specific task or purpose, making the overall code easier to read, understand, and maintain.
         2. By defining functions, you can reuse the same code in multiple places within your program or even across different programs. This reduces code duplication and improves code efficiency.
         3.  Functions with descriptive names provide clear intentions of their purpose. This makes your code more readable and easier for other developers to understand and modify.
         4. Functions can encapsulate complex operations, hiding the implementation details from the rest of the program. This is known as abstraction, and it allows you to focus on what the function does rather than how it does it.
         5. Functions make it easier to test and debug your code, since they are smaller units of code.
         6. Code Modularity - Functions can be organized into separate files, creating modules that can be independently compiled and linked together.
    You can call a function in another function but you can't define a function in another function. 
    In fucntion declaration, always mention the data-type as void when you are not passing any arguments (Yopu can leave it blank but that is not a best practice)
    Function declarations have a default return type as int
    You can declare the function within main () too, but it is always better to declare before main so that they have a global scope
    Note: Main is a user defined function (Because we are one who are writing the code under the main function)
    In function declaration you do not need to name the variables in arguments but data-type is mandatory. But in function definition both are mandatory when you are passing arguments.
    If you are defining function before main (), you do not need to declare the function.
    Okay, lets have some clarity between parameters and arguments.
        In function calling (the function which actually calls), it is called as 'arguments'/'actual parameters'
        In function definition and declaration, it is called as 'parameters'/'formal parameters'
    Classification of functions:
        1. No argumnets, no return type
        2. No arguments with return type
        3. Argumnets with no return type
        4. Arguments with return type


# 17. Storage classes:
They give information of the variable like location, scope and lifetime
    Here scope means whether they are limited to a block (anything within a curly braces), function or a program (global scope)
    A variable will have choose a nearest value
        If you are declaring int a = 5 at the global scope, int a = 10 under main and int a = 15 in a curlybraces1 under main and using printf to print a in another curlybraces2, here a = 10 will be printed as it is the nearest value that it can access   
They are declared before the data type of a variable

    A. Auto: 
    When you dont declare anything, it will be considered auto. 
    Above points are default and they are nothing but auto type
    You cant declare them before main. Because to declare them above means that they are global scope.
    They are stored in stack part of RAM

    B. Register:
    Similar to auto, they cannot be declared at the global level
    They are stored in CPU register. 
        Everytime you need a variable to process for some calculation, you to need fetch the from RAM.
        While processing can be faster, fetching (Process name is 'switching' as it is switching back and forth between CPU register and teh RAM), take time which degrades the efficiency.
        To overcome this we can store the variables in CPU register. But their memory is very small. So we cant use it for all variables rather should be used only for variables that are frequently in use. 
            Lets say a for-loop runs for 10,000 times. Here int i will used 10,000 times. This can be very good usage of register
            Not all types of variables can be declared as register. Usually, simple data types like int or char are candidates for register storage. Pointers and complex data structures are less likely to be stored in registers.
        Variables declared as register typically do not have a memory address.
        But but but Keep in mind that in modern C compilers, the use of the register keyword is often unnecessary because compilers are sophisticated enough to optimize variable storage and access automatically. In many cases, manually specifying register may have no effect on the generated code or may even hinder optimization efforts. 

    C. Static:
    A static variable has a fixed memory location throughout the program's execution, unlike regular (auto) variables, which are created and destroyed each time the function is called.
    The lifetime of a static variable extends over the entire program's execution, making it useful for preserving data across function calls. It retains its value between function calls, unlike automatic variables that are reinitialized each time the function is called.
        Once you have initialized the static variable to some value (say 1), and if you are going to come back to the same line due to loop or recursion, keep in mind that you are not going reinitialize the values again and again
        By default, static variables are initialized to zero. 
        Example: 
            int incr (int i)
            {
                static int count;
                count = count + i;
                return (count);
            } 
            void main ()
            {
                int i,j;
                for (i = 0; i <= 4; i++)
                {
                    j = incr (i);
                }
            }
    Static function is only accessible within the file where it is declared. It cannot be accessed from other source files using function prototypes.

    D. Extern:
    They are stored in RAM and the scope is Global and it can be used to access variables/functions between files too
    If file 1 has a variable x = 10. In file 2, you can declare 'extern int x'
        Here in file 2 the memory will not be allocated. Rather it will be just requesting the compiler to refer another file.
        This can save memory
    Not just between files, even within files you can use them. Looa at the below example
        int main ()
        {
            extern int a;
            printf ("%d", a);
            func1 ();
            func2 ();
        }
        void func1 ()
        {
            int a = 2;
            a++;
            printf ("a = %d", a);
        }
        void func2 ()
        {
            printf ("Hello")
        }
        int a;
    See here a is declared at the end. Compiler will throw an error as undeclared int. But extern has instructed the compiler that a is declared somewhere else so please look for it.
        See even if you have declared x after the extern line in the same block, it will still throw an error. But extern tells the compiler to look outside the block in which extern is declared.
        We use them for between the files. The above scenario is just to explain the logic behind it.
    You have to have the files under the same project. Also include the source file at the top as #include "filename.c"
    The drawback is that, the reference with extern is possible only with global variables.
        In file lets say that you have int x = 5 under the main function. In file 2 if youy are trying to access x using extern int x, it is not possibel as x's visibility is limited to main function of that file. 
    Note: You know that by default, a storage class would be auto for any variable. But when you declare a variable above main it cannot take auto as the default value.
        We have studied that auto is limited only blocks and functions
        So in this scenario when you declare int x globally, its default storage class will be extern.
        Also by default all global variable fall under extern storage class category


# 18. Dynamic Memory Allocation:
    SMA - Memory is allocated during compile time based fixed values (like int - 4 bytes, ch - 1 byte)
    DMA - Memory is allocated during run time based programmers requirements
        All of the following returns a void pointer
    1. malloc ():
        It dynamically allocates a single large block of contiguous memory in the heap according to the size specified
        When memory is allocation is success, it returns a pointer pointing to the base address (first byte), else it returns NULL. That is on failure (when you are requesting n+1 memory with capacity of n) it will return a NULL pointer.
            So always use an if condition for printing memory insufficinet error message
        Syntax: (void *)malloc(size_t size)
            Here size_t is nothing but an unsigned integer as the size cannot be negative
            malloc returns a void pointer because it actually doesnt know for what we are asking memory for.
                Hence we need to type cast the void with whatever that we require such as int* 
                But modern compiler and other languages doesn't require them
    2. calloc ():
        Two difference between malloc and calloc
            malloc allocates a single large block of memory while calloc allocates multiple blocks of memory in equal size
            malloc by default will allocate garbage value to this memory, while calloc will initialize them to 0.
        Syntax: (void *)calloc(size_t n size_t size)
            Here n represents the number of blocks
            If you remember in malloc we use (int *)malloc(n*sizeof(int))
                Here the after multiplying with n one huge block of will be allocated. In calloc 3 individual blocks of equal size will allocated.
        calloc can make it more convenient to work with structures that have multiple elements of the same size, like arrays, matrices, or other data structures.
        It simplifies the management of memory because you can treat each block as a distinct unit, whereas allocating individually with malloc may require additional calculations to access specific elements within the allocated memory block.
    3. realloc ():
        It is used for resizing previously allocated memory
        syntax: (void *)realloc(void *ptr, size_t size);
        Example: int *newArr = (int *)realloc(arr, 10 * sizeof(int));
            void *ptr is represents previously allocated memory block that you want to resize.
            The size can be larger/smaller than the previous size 
                Just know it:
                    If ptr is NULL, realloc behaves like malloc and simply allocates a new block of memory of the specified size.
                    If size is mentioned as 0, the realloc behaves like free () which deallocates memory. 
                        But the issue with mentioning size as 0 is it will lead to dangling pointer. So, it's essential to assign NULL to ptr after calling realloc with size 0.
                            This is not a goof practice. So use free () for this job which automatically doees everything. 
        If you increase the size using realloc, additional memory is added immediately to the right of the last existing memory. If that memory is already occupied, the contents are copied to a new block, and the size is increased. This behavior is known as "resizing in place" when possible.


         




# 7. Command Line Interface
# int main(int argc, string argv[])
CLI's are  those arguments that are passed to your program at the command line. 
Here, this command is another way to write the main function. Till now we have seen that main fucntion doesnt any inputs from CLI. But using this they will takle the inputs. You have to specify followed by the filename. Actually what they do is,
    # int argc stands for "argument count" and represents the number of command-line arguments passed to the program when it is executed.
        #  The value of argc is at least 1 because the name of the program itself is considered as the first argument.
    # string argv[] stands for "argument vector" (vector is an another term for array) and is an array of strings that holds the actual command-line arguments.
        # You can even specify upto how many arguements it can hold.
        # first argument is will held at argv [0] and the last will held at argv [argc - 1]
The names are just conventional. Instead of argc and argv, you can use any name.

# Exit Status
When a program ends, a special exit code is provided to the computer.
When a program exits without error, a status code of 0 is provided and when unsuccesful a non-zero status code is provided by the computer. 
    The non-zero code is generally depends on the type of error. The defualt value is differemt for differenrt errors.
    This code be found by executing "echo $?"


# 8. Memory:
& -  address-of operator (C tells you what address does the variable live in)
* - dereference operator (To go to a specific address)
    # Pointer (*): 
    It is a variable that contains the address of some value
    Since pointers are variable too, they will take up space in the memory.
    Size: 8 bytes
    Note: Pointers can point to other pointers too to express address of an address. This is known as double pointers (**).


# 9. Decimal Binary and Hexa-Decimal
Decimal     Binary   Hexa-Decimal
    0        0000       0x0
    1        0001       0x1
    2        0010       0x2
    3        0011       0x3
    4        0100       0x4
    5        0101       0x5
    6        0110       0x6
    7        0111       0x7
    8        1000       0x8
    9        1001       0x9
    10       1010       0xA
    11       1011       0xB
    12       1100       0xC
    13       1101       0xD
    14       1110       0xE
    15       1111       0xF

We are pre-fixing 0x in front of hexa-decimal just to distingusih it from binary.
Binary has place values of (2^0, 2^1, 2^2, 2^3, etc.). Decimal has place values of (10^0, 10^1, 10^2, 10^3, etc.). Hexa-Decimal has place values of (16^0, 16^1, 16^2, 16^3, etc.)