# JavaScript is a Synchronous, Single-Threaded Language
    # Synchronous: JavaScript executes code in a sequential manner, meaning one operation must complete before the next one begins.
    # Single-Threaded: JavaScript can only perform one task at a time within a single call stack. This means it executes one line of code at a time in the order it's written.

# ECMA Standard (ES):
    # ECMA (European Computer Manufacturers Association) is an organization that standardizes information and communication systems, including programming languages.
    # ECMAScript (ES) is a scripting language specification standardized by ECMA. It defines the rules, syntax, and core functionality of scripting languages, like JavaScript.
    # It ensures that JS is standardized and works consistently across all platforms (browsers, servers like Node.js).

# Execution of JavaScript
    # Execution Context: Everything in JavaScript happens inside an execution context.
    # Types of Execution Contexts:
        # 1. Global Execution Context (GEC):
            # Created by default when your JavaScript code starts executing. 
            # It's the outermost context and represents the global scope (i.e., the environment where your entire script runs).
            # In a browser, the global context is associated with the window object. In Node.js, it’s associated with the global object.
        # 2. Function Execution Context (FEC):
            # Created every time a function is invoked.
            # Each function has its own execution context, which is separate from the global context or any other function's context.
    # Components of an Execution Context:
        # 1. Variable Environment (Memory Component):
            # This is where variables and function declarations are stored in memory as key-value pairs.
        # 2. Thread of Execution (Code Component):
            # This is where JavaScript code is executed line by line.
    # Lexical Environment:
        # From the memory management and execution point of view, components of execution contexts are variable environment and thread of execution.
        # But in terms of scoping and scope chain, we can actually divide them into lexical environment and thread of execution.  
        # Lexical environment encompasses, 
            # Variable Environment (where variables and functions are stored). It consists of the "Declarative Environment Record", which holds bindings of variables and functions within that context.
            # Reference to the outer Environment (for scope chaining).
    # Creation of Execution Context: The execution context is created in two phases:
        # 1. Creation Phase (Memory Creation Phase):
            # Variable Declarations: Variables, arrow functions, and function expressions are allocated memory and initialized with the value `undefined`.
            # Function Declarations: Functions are fully hoisted, meaning the entire function definition is stored in memory.
        # 2. Code Execution Phase:
            # Variable Assignment: Variables are assigned the values specified by the code.
            # Function Calls: When a function is called, a new execution context is created for that function.
                # This new execution context also has its own memory and code components, following the same two-phase process.
                # Once the function finishes executing, its execution context is destroyed, and control returns to the original context where the function was invoked.

# JavaScript Call Stack
    # The Call Stack manages the order of execution of these execution contexts. It follows the Last-In-First-Out (LIFO) principle:
        # Global Execution Context: This is the first context placed at the bottom of the stack when the program starts.
        # New Execution Contexts: Each time a function is called, a new execution context is created and placed on top of the stack.
        # Context Removal: Once a function completes execution, its context is removed from the top of the stack, returning control to the previous context.
        # Alternate Names: The call stack is also known as the Execution Context Stack, Program Stack, Control Stack, Runtime Stack, or Machine Stack, among other names.

# Scope Chain:
    # When a variable is accessed, JS looks up the variable in the current scope and, if it’s not found, continues to search through parent scopes. This process of searching through scopes is known as the scope chain.
    # We know that each time a function is called, a new execution context is created. This execution context has its own scope chain.
    # When you access a variable, JS first checks the current execution context's lexical environment. If the variable is not found, JS looks up to the parent execution context’s lexical environment. This continues up the chain until JavaScript either finds the variable or reaches the global execution context.
        # The lexical environment refers to the scope where code is defined (local scope) and includes the variable bindings and a reference to the parent scope. 
        # The lexical Environment consists of,
            # Environment Record: Where variable bindings and function declarations are stored.
            # Reference to Outer Environment: A reference to the parent lexical environment
 
# Understanding Memory Allocation for var, let, and const
# 1. var and the Global Object:
    # When you declare a variable using var in the global scope (outside any function), it is added as a property of the Global Object and to the DER (for scoping purpose).
    # In a browser environment, the Global Object is window. So, if you declare var x = 10; globally, window.x is also 10.
    # If var is declared inside a function, it is scoped to that function and is stored in that function’s execution context, not the global object.
    # Variables declared with var are hoisted to the top of their scope and initialized with undefined during the creation phase of the execution context.
# 2. let and const with Block Scope:
    # Variables declared with let and const are block-scoped. They are Stored only in the DER and not in the global object. They are scoped to the block they are declared in and are not accessible as properties of the global object.
    # Example:
        let y = 20;
        const z = 30;
        console.log(window.y); // undefined
        console.log(window.z); // undefined
    # During the creation phase of an execution context, let and const variables are stored in a separate memory space called the "Declarative Environment Record (DER)" which is a part of the execution context but independent of the global object. They are not initialized until the code execution reaches their declaration. DER is where variables declared with let, const, and function declarations are stored when they are created.
    # Variables in the Declarative Environment Record are not automatically attached to the global object, even if they are declared in the global scope.
    # So, Temporal Dead Zone (TDZ) is the period during which a variable is declared (allocated a separate memory space called the "Declarative Environment Record") but not yet initialized.
    # Similar to var, let and const declarations are hoisted, but unlike var, they are not initialized immediately. They remain in the TDZ until the code execution reaches the actual line of declaration.
# Global Object vs. Declarative Environment Record: 
    # The global object is concerned with the global scope and holds properties accessible across the global execution context. The Declarative Environment Record is concerned with the scoping rules of JavaScript, ensuring that variables declared with let and const are properly isolated according to their scope (block, function, or global).

# Block Scope in JS:
    # AKA compound statement.
    # They are used to group statements together so that we can use multiple statements in a place where JS expects one statement.
    # For an example, if(true) let a = 10;
        # This is a valid statement. Here if the condition satisfies i want to execute the next line.
        # What if if I want to execute multiple lines? Then I have to place them in a block
        # if(true) { let a = 10; let b = 20; }

# Different types of errors:
    # 1. Syntax errors: 
        # These occur when the code violates the syntax rules of the JavaScript language. 
        # They are typically caught by the JavaScript engine before the code is executed.
        # It prevents any further execution.
        # Examples: Missing paranthesis, redeclaration of let and const, declaring const without initialisation, etc.
    # 2. Reference Errors:
        # These occur when the code tries to reference a variable that doesn't exist or hasn't been initialized.
        # Trying to access let/const before initilialising will give you this error as they are in TDZ.
        # Examples:
            # console.log(x) will throw an error as "x is not defined"
            # let a; 
            # console.log(a); will throw an error as "cannot access a before initialisation"
            # a = 5;
    # 3. Type Errors:
        # These occur when an operation is performed on a value of an incorrect type, or when trying to access properties or methods of undefined or null.

# Callback functions:
    # A callback function is a function that is passed as an argument to another function and is intended to be executed after some operation has been completed. The function receiving the callback doesn’t need to know what the callback will do—just that it will be called once its task is finished.
    # We know that JS is single-threaded and synchronous by nature, meaning it executes one command at a time, in order. However, some tasks, like network requests or reading files, can take time. Instead of blocking the entire code execution while waiting for these tasks to complete, JavaScript uses callbacks to handle the results once the task is done, allowing the rest of the code to continue running in the meantime.
    # When you pass a function as an argument to another function, you're passing the reference to that function, not executing it immediately. The function that receives the callback can then invoke it at the appropriate time.
    # Types:
        # Synchronous Callback: These are executed immediately within the function that receives them.
            # Example: map, filter, etc.
        # Asynchronous Callback: These are executed at a later time, such as after an asynchronous operation completes.
            # Example: setTimeout

# Understanding browsers at the basic level:
Key Components of a Web Browser includes,
    # 1. User Interface (UI): This includes the address bar, back/forward buttons, bookmarks, reload button, home button, and the viewport where the web page is displayed.
    # 2. Browser Engine: 
        # It acts as a bridge between the JS engine and the rendering engine. It interprets the inputs from the UI and directs the rendering engine to display the requested content.
        # # Example:  Blink (Google Chrome, Opera), WebKit (Safari), Gecko (Mozilla Firefox), etc.
    # 3. Rendering Engine: 
        # It interprets HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to construct the Document Object Model (DOM) and render the page.
        # It does the layout calculation and paints the visual elements.
        # Example:  Blink (Google Chrome, Opera), WebKit (Safari), Gecko (Mozilla Firefox), etc.
    # 4. JS Engine: 
        # Different browsers have different engines. For an example, chrome has V8 engine, Firefox has SpiderMonkey, Safari has JavaScriptCore, Edge has Chakra, etc.
        # The engine parses the JavaScript code into an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) and then compiles the AST into bytecode or machine code.
        # The compiled code is executed, allowing the JavaScript to manipulate the DOM, make network requests, handle events, etc.
    # 5. Networking Layer:
        # The networking layer handles all network-related tasks, such as sending HTTP requests and receiving responses from web servers.
        # When a user enters a URL, the networking layer sends a request to the server hosting the content. The server responds with the requested resources (HTML, CSS, JS files, etc.).
    # 6. Data Storage: 
        # Browsers provide mechanisms to store data on the client side, such as cookies, LocalStorage, SessionStorage, IndexedDB, and Cache API.
        # These storage mechanisms are used to persist data on the client side, such as user preferences, session information, or offline data.  

# JS Engine Environment:
    # It encompasses JS Engine within which we have Heap and Call Stack.
    # Whenever a JS file is executed, a global execution context is created and puhsed on to the stack.  
    # JS Environment also has Web API's, Event Loop, Task/Callback Queue and Microtask queue.

# Heap:
    # We have already studied about call stack. Lets look about heap.
    # The heap is a region of memory used for dynamic memory allocation. In JS, the heap is where reference types (like arrays, functions, and objects) are stored.
        # Objects: When you create an object (e.g., {}, new Object()), it is stored in the heap.
        # Arrays: Arrays are stored in the heap because they can grow dynamically, and their size isn't fixed.
        # Functions: While the function itself (as a block of code) might be associated with an execution context, any objects or arrays created within the function are stored in the heap.
        # Closures: When a function closes over variables, those variables might be stored in the heap to ensure they persist even after the function that created them has finished executing.
    # Inside an execution context, primitives (like numbers, strings, and booleans) are stored directly in the call stack. However, when an object is declared inside a function, the reference to that object is stored in the execution context (on the call stack), but the object itself lives in the heap.
        # Example: let obj = { name: "Alice" }; Here The object { name: "Alice" } is stored in the heap. The variable obj holds a reference to the memory location of this object in the heap. This reference is stored in the execution context on the call stack.
    # The heap is also where the JS engine performs garbage collection, which involves finding and cleaning up memory that is no longer in use (i.e., objects that are no longer referenced by any part of the code).

# Web API's: 
    # They are built-in functionalities provided by the browser that allow developers to perform various tasks beyond the core JavaScript language capabilities.
    # You will be surprised to know that fetch, setTimeout, addEventListener, etc. are not part of JS rather they are features provided by the browser.
    # Types of Web API's:    
        # 1. DOM API: 
            # Alows JS to interact with and manipulate the HTML and CSS of a web page.
            # Example: document.querySelector()
        # 2. Network API: 
            # Enables interaction with external servers to send and receive data over the internet.
            # Example: fetch(), XMLHttpRequest
        # 3. Timer API:
            # Allows code to be executed after a delay or at regular intervals.
            # Example: setTimeout(), setInterval()
        # 4. Geolocation API: 
            # Allows access to the user's geographical location.
            # Example: navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition()
        # 5. Web Storage API:
            # Allows data to be stored in the browser for use across sessions.
            # Example: localStorage, sessionStorage
        # 6. Multimedia API:
            # Enables interaction with audio, video, and other media elements on a web page.    
            # Example: HTMLMediaElement
        # 7. Canvas API:
            # Allows drawing and animation directly on a web page using JavaScript.
            # Example: getContext('2d'), fillRect(), drawImage()
        # 8. Console API:
            # Set of methods provided by browsers to interact with the browser's console.
            # Example: console.log(), console.info()

# Event Loop:
    # It is a fundamental component of JavaScript's concurrency model, enabling non-blocking, asynchronous behavior despite JS being synchronous and single-threaded.
    # Instead of executing code sequentially line by line, JavaScript can execute a particular line of code and, without waiting for its result, continue to execute subsequent lines. For example, when making a network request, if the server takes a long time to respond, the JavaScript engine does not block the execution of other code. Instead, it continues running subsequent lines, avoiding poor user experience caused by blocking operations.
    # We already know what makes a code asynchrnous. Now lets look at its working behind the scenes.
        # When an asynchronous operation (such as setTimeout or an AJAX request) is initiated, it is handled by the Web APIs or Node.js APIs, which operate outside of the JavaScript engine's single execution thread.
        # Example:
                console.log('Start');
                setTimeout(() => {
                    console.log('Timeout');
                }, 1000);
                console.log('End');
            # Execution flow:
                # console.log('Start') is executed, logging "Start" to the console.
                # setTimeout is called with a callback function and a delay of 1000ms. The callback function (i.e., () => { console.log('Timeout'); }) is registered with the Web APIs.
                # console.log('End') is executed next, logging "End" to the console.
                # Execution context is destroyed.
                # The Web APIs handle the asynchronous delay and will move the callback to the 'task queue' after 1000ms (expiry of timer).
                # console.log('Timeout'); is executed at last
        # As you can see, the callback function associated with setTimeout does not reside within the execution context. Instead, it is managed by the Web APIs and the task queue system.

# Task/Callback Queue:
    # See even before the console.log('Timeout'); was executed our current execution context was destroyed.
    # So what happens is there is a component called event loop and there is queue called task queue. The event loop component has only one job. It monitors the call stack and the task queue. 
    # Whenever the call stack is empty, it takes the callbacks waiting within the task queue and pushes it to the task queue which is then executed in its own exection context. 
    # The task queue stores tasks (macrotasks) that need to be executed after the current execution context completes.

# Example with DOM API:
        console.log('Start');
            document.getElementById("btn").addEventListener("click", () => {console.log("callback")});
        console.log('End');
    # Here document.getElementById("btn") uses the DOM API to retrieve the element with the specified ID and adds an event listener to it. This effectively registers a callback function to be executed when a click event occurs on that element.
    # The callback function is waiting for a click event and it will remain registered and active unless explicitly removed or until the browser or application is closed.
    # When a user clicks the button, the click event is captured, and the event loop takes care of placing the callback function into the task queue for execution.

# Micro-task Queue:
    # The micro-task queue is another queue that holds tasks with higher priority than those in the task queue. Microtasks are executed before macrotasks, ensuring their prompt processing.
    # While network-related requests, such as those made with fetch, result in callbacks are placed in the macro-task queue, the callbacks associated with their Promises are placed in the micro-task queue. Similarly, MutationObservers, which monitor changes in the DOM tree, register their callback functions in the micro-task queue.
    # After a request or a Promise is resolved or rejected, the associated callback function is moved to the micro-task queue by the event loop.
    # Now the execution of subsequenet lines of code will be continued.
    # Meanwhile when the promise is resolved/rejected, the callback function will moved to the micro-task queue by the event loop. It will wait until all the lines are executed.
    # When both the micro-task queue and the task queue have callbacks, the micro-task queue is given priority, and its callbacks are executed first.
    # There are situations where one callback can lead to the creation of additional callbacks, which may themselves generate more callbacks, and so on. When this occurs in the micro-task queue, it can lead to a situation where the task queue is starved of execution time. This phenomenon is referred to as "starvation."
        # Techincally, Starvation in the context of JavaScript’s event loop refers to a situation where tasks in the macro-task queue (or task queue) are prevented from being executed because the micro-task queue is continually populated with new micro-tasks. 

# The untrustable setTimeout:
    # The setTimeout function may not always execute the callback exactly after the specified delay. This can be surprising, but it’s due to how the event loop and task queue work in JavaScript.
    # Suppose you set a timeout with a delay of 5000ms (5 seconds). If there are many lines of code to execute after the setTimeout, and these lines take, for instance, 10000ms (10 seconds) to execute, the actual execution of the setTimeout callback may be delayed.
    # Once the 5000ms timer expires, the callback function is added to the task queue.
    # The event loop monitors the call stack and task queue. The callback function from setTimeout will only be picked up from the task queue and executed when the call stack is empty.
    # If the call stack is busy executing other code (e.g., if it takes 10000ms to complete), the callback function will remain in the task queue until the call stack becomes empty.
    # So, the delay specified in setTimeout is a minimum delay, not an absolute one. The callback will execute after the timer expires, but it might be further delayed if the call stack is busy.

# JS Engine:
    # It takes developer written code as the input and the code goes through 3 steps.
    # 1. Parsing: 
        # The code is broken down into tokens (Each and every word is broken down). 
        # These tokens are converted to Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) by a Syntax Parser. An AST is a hierarchical tree structure that represents the syntactic structure of source code.
    # 2. Compilation and 3. Execution:
        # JS follows Just-In-Compilation(JIT) where compilation and execution goes hand-in-hand.
        # Generally a programming language can be interpreted language or a compiled language
            # Interpreter: Executes the program line by line. Hence very fast but not efficient.
            # Compiler: Compiles the program as whole (where a new optimised version of the code is created) and then executed. Hence very efficient but not fast.
        # JS engine makes use of both which is called as JIT. 
            # It is a runtime optimization technique. It compiles and optimizes code dynamically during runtime, focusing on frequently executed code paths. Compilation and execution occur in tandem, allowing ongoing optimizations as the program runs. This contrasts with Ahead-Of-Time (AOT) compilation, where the entire codebase is compiled into machine code before the program runs, with a clear separation between compilation and execution phases.
            # To put it simply, AOT compiles the code in one stage and executes the compiled machine code in other stage. But JIT compiles the code into machine code (optimizing more complex code paths and functions) and that code is executed immediately. Then again identifies other code paths and that is executed. So the compilation and execution goes back and forth.
    